katar's foreign Ministry says it has not
received any firm agreements from either
Israel or Hamas on the Gaza ceasefire
plan put forward by the US President Joe
Biden however Ministry spokesman Majid
alansari says he's positive it is moving
in the right
direction we haven't had concrete
approvals to the suggestions on the
table by both sides and uh we have all
read and uh seen the contradictory
statements coming in uh from uh Israeli
ministers which doesn't f us with a lot
of confidence over there being a unified
position on Israel in Israel over this
uh this current proposal on uh on the
table uh however we can see also that
there's uh a positive momentum building
up within both sides as you said the
statements from Hamas were quite
positive uh although falling short of uh
a commitment to to the language and
asking for more clarification uh but
they were positive we we have also seen
a positive movement in in Israel where
the government is meeting right now and
that there discussions over accepting
the proposals on the tables well our
correspondent Assad B has more from
kata's foreign Ministry in
DOA now what we've heard from the kis is
a cautious approach now what they have
been saying is that there is no concrete
proposals from both sides there's no
agreement but also they've said that
they've heard contradictory statements
from Israel which shows that Israel
doesn't have a unified position and that
this doesn't give qat much confidence in
the process but what they did say is
that they are seeing a positive
International momentum led by the United
States to get both sides to agree to
this agreement but what we heard from
the White House was that they are
blaming Hamas they said that Hamas is
the obstacle to this agreement now
that's not what we've heard from
qarqatar said there's no concrete steps
from both sides but there have been
positive statements from Hamas but it
falls short of accepting an agreement
now in the past we have heard from qar
that one side clearly wants to end this
war and one side clearly wants to
continue this war meaning Israel now
that's not what they're saying now
they're urging both sides to come
together to stop this war although they
say that there is no concrete timeline
or whether it will actually happen Assad
bag Al jaaz
Doha wellan Barakat is Professor of
public policy at hammad bin Khalifa
University joins us here in Doha good
speak to you again Sultan we've got
Hamas saying that Israel is not serious
about this deal and that the ball is not
in hamas's court does that suggest that
they are likely to accept Biden's peace
proposal well they came out early on
yesterday in fact and they were positive
from the beginning and uh as we said
earlier I think uh what has been offered
is not too far from what they had
already agreed to uh some 10 days ago so
From hamas's perspective I think it is
very clear that they want to see an end
of War
now the worry I think on their mind is
when they read the details and they
compare the statements a netanyahu's
statements to his audience he says
different things to different people his
message to his uh far right is very
different when he says it to the to to
the rest to the United States and so on
that is confusing also the United States
uh language they talk about the
possibility of uh Israel going back to
war if Hamas fails to implement the
terms of the agreement and you can
imagine that their capacity no doubt has
been reduced not just the military
capacity but also the governance
capacity until today Israelis are still
going after their policemen on the
street they go after the public service
within Hamas that would make it very
difficult for them to guarantee anything
on the ground in terms of a ceasefire so
th those issues must be playing on the
mind as as they consider the final
detail and let's look at other ways that
the ceasefire plan might be implemented
because it does say that Israel must
withdraw all of its forces from the
populated areas of Gaza that is most of
Gaza isn't it I mean it's a tiny area
it's filled with people these people
mostly are intense depends on how they
would Define populated they may say
populated as in now people are
concentrated in those areas which means
that uh the uh in the middle of Gaza the
Israelis have now introduced like a a
security Zone that goes all the way to
the waters which practic Bally split the
Gaza uh the Gaza Strip into two that
whole area is not populated at the
moment they've pushed people out of it
they may argue that they need to stay
there so that they can uh filter through
the Palestinians returning to the north
they wouldn't want Hamas fighters to go
back North so whoever is coming back
they have to check them one after the
other so a lot depends on the
definitions and I think the Palestinians
experience so far with Israel is that no
definition can fit and nothing can
commit them to implement uh they're
doing all what we see they're doing now
uh following the second call of the icj
for them to explicitly not kill
civilians in RAV it was unequivocal it's
very clear decision and they're still
pushing for it and Biden unfortunately
although he's trying to Lobby the
International Community the G7 came out
in support of his plan the Arab
ambassadors uh did the same he has The
Leverage in his hand he has the key he
can actually threaten to stop at least
supplying weapons never mind cutting the
financial aid or uh protecting Israel at
the security Council so now they're
trying to get the International
Community to approve it he taking the
decision to the security Council as well
but all of this really playing around
the edges the real uh instrument that
the United States has is to stop
supplying Israel with weapons so that
they understand there is an end to this
I mean that did happen didn't it during
the sort of Rafa invasion in those early
days certain yes no no they didn't stop
I don't think they stopped they they
certainly threatened it and it had an
impact so why are they not why are they
withholding that card now well I think
partly because he saw the power of
Israel in Washington DC I mean he's he's
in the middle of this and Netanyahu was
able to get an invitation from Congress
using the Israeli Lobby in Washington to
go for a fourth invitation fourth time
to address the Congress never happened
before in the middle of all this and
against the wish of the IC or at least
now that you know the request for an
arrest warrant so he must be uh fully um
aware of the fact that he has to
delicately balance the Israeli interest
s Barat always good to speak to you
thanks for joining us thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler